# Entry 6
## 6/3/24
## Entry 5: Presenting Takeaways

### Content

Angela and I created a fun game that tests your reflex using the tool, kaboom.js. The game we created has fallen eggs that you have to dodge and coins that you have to collect. Your goal is to collect as many coins are you can without touching the eggs, which this requires a fast reflex. This is why people can play our game to not only test out their reflexes but also improve their reflexes. The game is created by Angela with some minor helps and background music/sounds from me to make the game less boring. We presented our game to teachers, students, and judges in class and in expo, which we were honorable mentions out of many other projects.

We're in the 8th and last stage of our **Engineering Design Process**, "**communicate the results**", where we talk about our project and presentation results. While creating the [elevator pitch](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18OxziCj_aIZHs7xN_szye33O5ObCPEM6KBlWGYaYZeg/edit), Angela and I were on call discussing about the purpose and inspiration behind our game because in the beginning, this wasn't our original idea. We wanted to create a parkour game with different levels, but we ended up with this game. It seemed like our resulting game served no purpose except for entertainment, but we soon found out that getting a high score in the game requires a lot of skill and need fast reflexes. This is why we decided that the purpose of the game can be improving reflexes as you get higher scores. We talked about the purpose and how our inspiration is from dodgeball and let them try the game. I realized that giving a good speech that explains the purpose well is really important because when a friend of Angela's came to us, Angela asked if she wanted to play but she rejected. Angela asked her why and she said that it's because many people are doing games which makes our game unoriginal. This is why when we presented to the judges, we made sure to explain our purpose really well and explain how the music and sound effect in the background makes the game less boring than other games along with the purpose it serves.

## Elevator Pitch Takeaways
* Everything has a purpose, you just have to find it. This is because I wasn't able to understand the purpose of the game in the beginning but we had to include a purpose for our elevator pitch so we continued playing the game and found the purpose.
* Confidence is important because even though Angela's friend said that games are unoriginal since everyone's making a game, we presented our project to the judges confidentally with lots of information and this got our game to become an honorable mention project.

During the in class [presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1rB_4k91AYzV5LOHKlTsBIXt-eBn3NQzPUS3SnhKBGOg/edit#slide=id.p) of our project, Angela and I also stayed on call to practice our presentations and we tried our best to make our presentation fun along with our process. We called every night before our presentation to see what lines we can change and to memorize our lines better. We were able to cut our presentation time from 15 minutes to exactly 10 minutes. We tried adding a bit of humor to our title slide so the audience can loosen up and know that our presentation is loose. We talked about our challenges and how we overcame the challenges to demonstrate our progress when creating the game. Angela and I decided that the hook should ask the audience about their reflexes because we figured that not many people believe in their reflexes. On the presentation day, we asked the audience about their reflexes and like we predicted, only about 2 people believe that they have fast reflexes. This is good because it correlates with our original script. I was nervous when presenting so I dropped the mic and forgot to change slides but Angela remembered to change the slides for me. We ended the presentation with two thank you images that are related to our project that also adds some humor. When we went back to our seats, Shelly said that our presentation was smooth.

## In-class Presentation Takeaways
* Practice with your partner outside of school as many times as you need when you're both free. This is because I was always scared of presentations so if we didn't practice our slides together, I would've been more nervous and done worse. This is also important because Angela and I have been practicing every night with Angela sharing her screen. This means that she's the one changing slides every time so when we're presenting in class, she was able to realize that I forgot to change my slide and help me change it.
* Have some humor. This is because the audience wouldn't want boring or serious presentations. We added a small joke to the title page and cute images to the last slide to engage the audience and show our personalities to make our presentation fun.

## Skills

Some skills that I've gained in the two presentations are **communication**, **time management**, and **consideration**. **Communication** was a skill I had because I was able to communicate to Angela every night to practice our elevator pitch and presentation slides. We were able to become more smooth in our presentations and come up with ideas together. **Time management** was  another skill I've gained because while practicing the presentations, we realized how long we were presenting for and we wanted to break things down to make the presentation shorter. We were also able to find enough time to practice the presentation every night with each other. The last skill I gained was **consideration**. This is because we thought that the game was just a random game we created for people to play for fun, but we we're able to consider about the purpose. We realized the purpose of our game which is to test and improve reflexes. 

[Previous](entry05.md) | [Next](entry07.md)

[Home](../README.md)